README.md, before:

# Cross-Border FX Digital Payment Automation Platform (PoC)

> **UK SME Market | Sandbox Only**

**Status:** Pre-regulatory, non-production prototype  
**Purpose:** Validate technical feasibility & product desirability  
**Audience:** Engineering, Architecture, Product  
**Environment:** Sandbox / Test only (no real customer funds)

---

##  Quick Start

### Option 1: UI Demo Only (No Database)

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start the Streamlit app
streamlit run main.py
```

### Option 2: Full Stack with Database (Phase 1)

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# 2. Start Docker Desktop

# 3. Run database setup (creates schema + seed data)
./setup.sh

# 4. Start the Streamlit app
streamlit run main.py
```

**Demo Credentials:**
- Admin: `admin@uksmb.com` / `admin123`
- Maker: `maker@uksmb.com` / `maker123`
- Approver: `approver@uksmb.com` / `approver123`

 **Full instructions:** See [RUNNING_STREAMLIT.md](RUNNING_STREAMLIT.md)

---

##  Overview

This Proof of Concept (PoC) validates the core workflow for a **cross-border FX and payment automation platform** targeting UK SMEs.

The PoC focuses on:
- FX quote transparency
- Maker–checker payment approvals
- End-to-end payment lifecycle (sandbox)
- Clear, auditable workflows

 **This repository is not production-ready and must not be used with real funds.**

---

##  Current Status

### Completed
-  Complete UI implementation with Streamlit
-  All 7 pages functional with mock data
-  Role-based access control (Admin, Maker, Approver)
-  Mock authentication and session management
-  Database schema designed (SQLAlchemy models)
-  Project structure and configuration

### In Progress
-  Backend service layer implementation
-  Database integration
-  Real authentication system
-  FX provider API integration
-  Payment provider API integration

---

##  PoC Objectives

### What We Are Proving

#### Technical Feasibility
- Integration with FX quote APIs (sandbox)
- Integration with payment APIs (sandbox)
- Real-time FX pricing and quote expiry handling

#### Workflow Validation
- SME-friendly payment creation flow
- Maker–checker approval model
- Status tracking and auditability

#### Value Proposition
- Transparency of FX pricing and fees
- Automation vs manual banking processes
- Clear UI communication of risk and status

---

### Explicitly Out of Scope

The following are **intentionally excluded**:

-  Production reliability or SLAs  
-  Real funds movement  
-  Full compliance / regulatory framework  
-  Full accounting or ERP integrations  
-  Scalability or performance tuning  

---

##  End-to-End User Journey

1. User logs in  
2. User creates a mock SME profile  
3. User adds a beneficiary  
4. User requests an FX quote  
5. User creates a payment instruction  
6. Approver reviews and approves payment  
7. System submits payment to sandbox rails  
8. Payment status updates are displayed  
9. User views basic FX & payment reporting  

---

##  Functional Scope

### Authentication & Roles
- Email + password login
- Session-based authentication
- Roles: Admin, Maker, Approver
- Optional MFA (nice-to-have)

---

### SME Profile (Mocked)
- Company name
- Registered country
- Industry sector
- FX volume band (self-declared)

No KYB / onboarding checks. Minimal personal data only.

---

### Beneficiary Management
- Add / edit / disable beneficiaries
- IBAN and BIC/SWIFT syntax validation

---

### FX Quote Engine
- Real-time sandbox FX quotes
- Configurable markup
- Quote expiry (60–120 seconds)

---

### Payment Creation
- Source currency
- Beneficiary
- Amount (send or receive)
- Execution date
- Automatic FX & fee calculation

States: Draft → Pending Approval

---

### Maker–Checker Approval
- Submit / approve / reject
- Comments supported
- Full audit trail
- Maker cannot approve own payment

---

### Payment Execution (Sandbox)
- Submit to payment API sandbox
- Status tracking: Submitted → Processing → Completed / Failed
- No real funds movement

---

### Reporting & Logs
- Payment list with filters
- FX volume, payment count, simulated fees

---

### Notifications
- Payment pending approval
- Payment approved
- Payment failed

---

##  Non-Functional Requirements

- Business-hours availability
- < 2–3s page load
- TLS + hashed passwords
- UK / EU data residency preferred
- Centralised basic logging
- UK GDPR-aware

---

##  Minimal Data Model

- users
- companies
- beneficiaries
- beneficiary_bank_accounts
- fx_quotes
- payments
- payment_approvals
- audit_logs

---

##  High-Level Architecture

- Web frontend (SPA)
- Backend API
- FX provider (sandbox)
- Payment provider (sandbox)
- Database
- Notification service

---

##  Success Criteria

- End-to-end workflow completes
- FX quotes retrieved reliably
- Approval controls reflect SME reality
- Clear user perception of transparency & control

---

##  Disclaimer

This repository represents a **non-production Proof of Concept** and must not be used with real customers or real funds.

Commit message:

Integrate Fixer.io API for real-time FX rates and fallback to mock provider
- Updated .env.example for Fixer.io configuration
- Added FIXER_IO_SETUP.md for integration instructions
- Enhanced FX provider to support Fixer.io with caching
- Updated FX service to use Fixer.io if API key is configured
- Modified FX Quotes page to display active provider
- Created test script for verifying Fixer.io integration

README.md, after:

# Cross-Border FX Digital Payment Automation Platform (PoC)

> **UK SME Market | Sandbox Only**

**Status:** Pre-regulatory, non-production prototype  
**Purpose:** Validate technical feasibility & product desirability  
**Audience:** Engineering, Architecture, Product  
**Environment:** Sandbox / Test only (no real customer funds)

---

##  Quick Start

### Option 1: UI Demo Only (No Database)

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start the Streamlit app
streamlit run main.py
```

### Option 2: Full Stack with Database (Phase 1)

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# 2. Start Docker Desktop

# 3. Run database setup (creates schema + seed data)
./setup.sh

# 4. Start the Streamlit app
streamlit run main.py
```

**Demo Credentials:**
- Admin: `admin@uksmb.com` / `admin123`
- Maker: `maker@uksmb.com` / `maker123`
- Approver: `approver@uksmb.com` / `approver123`

 **Full instructions:** See [RUNNING_STREAMLIT.md](RUNNING_STREAMLIT.md)

---

##  Overview

This Proof of Concept (PoC) validates the core workflow for a **cross-border FX and payment automation platform** targeting UK SMEs.

The PoC focuses on:
- FX quote transparency
- Maker–checker payment approvals
- End-to-end payment lifecycle (sandbox)
- Clear, auditable workflows

 **This repository is not production-ready and must not be used with real funds.**

---

##  Current Status

### Completed
-  Complete UI implementation with Streamlit
-  Database integration with PostgreSQL
-  Real authentication system (bcrypt password hashing)
-  Role-based access control (Admin, Maker, Approver)
-  Company profile management with audit logging
-  Beneficiary management with IBAN/SWIFT validation
-  **FX quote integration with Fixer.io API (delayed rates)**
-  Automatic fallback to mock provider for testing
-  Database schema with Alembic migrations
-  Seed data for demo users and company

 **FX Rates:** Using [Fixer.io API](https://fixer.io) for real delayed rates (~60 min). See [FIXER_IO_SETUP.md](FIXER_IO_SETUP.md) for configuration.

### In Progress
-  Payment creation workflow
-  Maker-checker approval system
-  Payment provider API integration

---

##  PoC Objectives

### What We Are Proving

#### Technical Feasibility
- Integration with FX quote APIs (sandbox)
- Integration with payment APIs (sandbox)
- Real-time FX pricing and quote expiry handling

#### Workflow Validation
- SME-friendly payment creation flow
- Maker–checker approval model
- Status tracking and auditability

#### Value Proposition
- Transparency of FX pricing and fees
- Automation vs manual banking processes
- Clear UI communication of risk and status

---

### Explicitly Out of Scope

The following are **intentionally excluded**:

-  Production reliability or SLAs  
-  Real funds movement  
-  Full compliance / regulatory framework  
-  Full accounting or ERP integrations  
-  Scalability or performance tuning  

---

##  End-to-End User Journey

1. User logs in  
2. User creates a mock SME profile  
3. User adds a beneficiary  
4. User requests an FX quote  
5. User creates a payment instruction  
6. Approver reviews and approves payment  
7. System submits payment to sandbox rails  
8. Payment status updates are displayed  
9. User views basic FX & payment reporting  

---

##  Functional Scope

### Authentication & Roles
- Email + password login
- Session-based authentication
- Roles: Admin, Maker, Approver
- Optional MFA (nice-to-have)

---

### SME Profile (Mocked)
- Company name
- Registered country
- Industry sector
- FX volume band (self-declared)

No KYB / onboarding checks. Minimal personal data only.

---

### Beneficiary Management
- Add / edit / disable beneficiaries
- IBAN and BIC/SWIFT syntax validation

---

### FX Quote Engine
- Real-time sandbox FX quotes
- Configurable markup
- Quote expiry (60–120 seconds)

---

### Payment Creation
- Source currency
- Beneficiary
- Amount (send or receive)
- Execution date
- Automatic FX & fee calculation

States: Draft → Pending Approval

---

### Maker–Checker Approval
- Submit / approve / reject
- Comments supported
- Full audit trail
- Maker cannot approve own payment

---

### Payment Execution (Sandbox)
- Submit to payment API sandbox
- Status tracking: Submitted → Processing → Completed / Failed
- No real funds movement

---

### Reporting & Logs
- Payment list with filters
- FX volume, payment count, simulated fees

---

### Notifications
- Payment pending approval
- Payment approved
- Payment failed

---

##  Non-Functional Requirements

- Business-hours availability
- < 2–3s page load
- TLS + hashed passwords
- UK / EU data residency preferred
- Centralised basic logging
- UK GDPR-aware

---

##  Minimal Data Model

- users
- companies
- beneficiaries
- beneficiary_bank_accounts
- fx_quotes
- payments
- payment_approvals
- audit_logs

---

##  High-Level Architecture

- Web frontend (SPA)
- Backend API
- FX provider (sandbox)
- Payment provider (sandbox)
- Database
- Notification service

---

##  Success Criteria

- End-to-end workflow completes
- FX quotes retrieved reliably
- Approval controls reflect SME reality
- Clear user perception of transparency & control

---

##  Disclaimer

This repository represents a **non-production Proof of Concept** and must not be used with real customers or real funds.
